-- Title: "Unabomber Ted Kaczynski, 81, dies in US prison cell"\n-- Date: "Sat 10 Jun 2023"\n\n-- Content: \n\nTheodore “Ted” Kaczynski, infamously known as the Unabomber, passed away on June 10, 2023, in his cell at the federal prison medical center in Butner, North Carolina. He was 81 years old. The cause of death was not immediately known at the time of reporting【7†source】【8†source】. Kaczynski had been serving his sentence in the federal Supermax prison in Florence, Colorado, before his transfer to the prison medical facility【9†source】.\n\nKaczynski was a Harvard-educated mathematician who lived in seclusion in a shack in the Montana wilderness. He orchestrated a 17-year bombing campaign from 1978 to 1995, which resulted in the death of three people and injuries to 23 others. His bombings led to substantial changes in the way Americans mailed packages and boarded airplanes, even leading to a temporary shutdown of air travel on the west coast in 1995【8†source】【9†source】.\n\nIn September 1995, he coerced the Washington Post and the New York Times into publishing his 35,000-word manifesto, "Industrial Society and Its Future," which denounced modern society and technology. The manifesto began with the line, “The Industrial Revolution and its consequences have been a disaster for the human race”【10†source】【11†source】. Following the publication of his manifesto, Kaczynski\'s brother David and his wife Linda recognized its tone and informed the FBI, leading to his arrest. This ended what had been the nation\'s longest and costliest manhunt【12†source】.\n\nUpon his arrest in April 1996, authorities found Kaczynski in a small cabin outside Lincoln, Montana, filled with journals, a coded diary, explosive ingredients, and two completed bombs【13†source】. Once revealed as a hermit with a long beard and hair, Kaczynski was seen by many as more of a bitter loner than a romantic antihero. His personal journals portrayed him as a vengeful individual driven by personal grievances rather than a committed revolutionary【14†source】【15†source】.\n\nKaczynski despised the notion of being seen as mentally ill. When his lawyers attempted to present an insanity defense, he tried to dismiss them. He eventually pleaded guilty to avoid an insanity defense, asserting his sanity in an interview with Time magazine in 1999【16†source】.\n\nBorn in Chicago on May 22, 1942, Kaczynski was the son of second-generation Polish Catholics. He was an accomplished academic, having skipped two grades to attend Harvard at 16 and published papers in reputable mathematics journals. His bombing victims were largely chosen due to their association with advancements in modern technology. His victims included a computer rental store owner, an advertising executive, a timber industry lobbyist, a geneticist, and a university computer expert【17†source】【18†source】.
